Sterotype threat

  This reminds me of a Chappelle show skit, with the stereotype pixies.
  <iframe width="420" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_PZwdQK9I20" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


  It can be crippling

what each race usually fears

my own fears about it
  I fear the positive stereotypes just as much as the negative stereotypes.  I get no kind of stereotype boost out of it.
  I fear that people want to expect more out of me, and have this entire back story assumed about me, prior to ever meeting me.

  I fear that people compare me to other Asians and Pacific islanders, which makes it really hard finding a job because of racial and gender quotas and affirmative action.  I get no kind of lift or boost from any of those stereotype because they have never been me.  I never grew up with a "tiger mom" (I fucking HATE that term), my mom was a single working mom, and I was a latch key child growing up in the Bayview district.  Everything I was ever good at I got because I spent the hours and energy to learn it, while others around me consistently made the wrong choices.  I went through the same schools, and failed the same placement tests in college, had to take remedial math because of the quality of education I received in an inner city school. But I dug my way out of it by working hard on my own, eventually graduating with a degree in math.

  All of a sudden that gets taken away from me because I happen to have an Asian last name.  People who don't know any better think I have the "smart-gene".  People I've met usually had their own interpretations about me and my life, and assumed I was an overachiever, and unlike other stereotypes, they were never shy about voicing their views.  I think 'positive' stereotypes like this are just as damaging a negative stereotypes.  When an individual gets judged based on how people perceive the group they belong to.

  On the other side, it must be frustrating for African American and Latino programmers to have something like affirmative action hanging over their heads and all their achievements, no matter what they achieve.

